---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Discussing Code of Conduct
permalink: /blogs/week2
---

This week, we focused on the origin of free and open software and the code of conduct of open-source communities.

# Part 1
We examined the code of conduct for the [Go](https://go.dev/conduct) project and [The Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/).

## Benefits of Having a Code of Conduct Document
There are various benefits to including a code of conduct document in a free and open-source project. Obviously, it makes a project much more formal and credible. The instructor of the course clearly stated in class that if an open-source project does not have a code of conduct, it is best that we do not contribute to it. In other words, projects benefit from having a code of conduct by attracting developers who are looking for a regular/stable community.

On the other hand, the code of conduct accounts for the subtle differences in expectations across individuals and cultures by formulating a set of guidelines. Moreover, it encourages inclusivity and diversity and warns against potential harassment and toxic behavior. For conflicts among developers, the code of conduct outlines a procedure to resolve them that everybody can agree on.

It is also possible to condemn and even remove developers who are guilty of misconduct. A well-written code of conduct can serve as evidence of violations, ensuring that the process of expelling someone is not as controversial.

## Go Code of Conduct vs. The Contributor Covenant
The first difference is that the Go code of conduct adds an additional sentence to the Scope section:  
*"This Code of Conduct also applies outside the project spaces when the Project Stewards have a reasonable belief that an individual’s behavior may have a negative impact on the project or its community."*  
This effectively gives more power to the "Project Stewards" in defining what is considered a "negative impact." Moreover, such an offending individual does not have to be a representative of the Go project.

The second difference is in resolving conflicts. In the Go project, it is preferred that people resolve violations of the code of conduct individually rather than reporting every case to the official email. This change may be due to a realistic concern regarding the size of the community and the efficiency of the Project Stewards in handling violation cases. Moreover, misunderstandings can occur—many of which can be easily resolved through communication.

## Eclipse Code of Conduct
[Link here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php)  
The Eclipse code of conduct is much more detailed, especially in the actions and retaliation sections. Eclipse might have included these sections due to precedent cases.

# Part 2
After reading the [Sugar Labs code of conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct), I found that it is not based on the Contributor Covenant. Instead, it is almost identical to the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct v2.0](https://ubuntu.com/community/ethos/code-of-conduct). They share the subheadings "Be Considerate," "Be Respectful," "Be Collaborative," and "Step Down Considerately."

# Part 3
I was shocked to see that [React's code of conduct](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) is almost exactly the same as the Contributor Covenant. There are no major changes besides a one-sentence addition:  
*"This Code of Conduct also applies outside the project spaces when there is a reasonable belief that an individual's behavior may have a negative impact on the project or its community."*  
This addition was made in a separate commit in April 2021. Interestingly, Go's code of conduct also includes an almost identical addition. It may be that in the open-source world, where the project's scope is large, it is in the project's best interest to reserve the right to define its "scope."
