---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Small Contributions
permalink: /blogs/week6
---

Honestly, I have not contributed much, so I will keep this blog short..
<!--more-->

## OpenStreetMap
My first contribution is on OpenStreetMap, specifically for China. I added internal roads of an neighborhood that I live close to with help of GPS imaging. After I made the contributions, an organization named OpenStreetMap China emailed me (in Chinese) that my contributions are low in quality and damages the existing dataset. They hope that my contributions have "good intentions", and if I continue to make "low quality contributions" they will eventually be rejected. A bunch of links for OpenStreetMap wiki followed. 

The response to my contributions is not what I expected and really discouraged me. OpenStreetMap China seems to adhere a different set of rules that are completely hidden when someone tries to contribute for the for time. It is also confusing to see they mention that "any individual of mapping in legally prohibited in China", which makes me wonder why they exist in the first place. Moreover, my contribution is not in terrible quality. It is definitely not a spam. OpenStreetMap China's message seems automated in the sense that they never made clear why my contribution is "in low quality". It made me feel that they never examined my contribution carefully. Even if I want to continue contributing, I do not know where to improve. Their message just does not come across as friendly or welcoming; moreover, they just assumed I can read Chinese because I made a contribution to the Chinese region. Lastly, by the time of the blog my contributions are still there without any obvious modifications.

I am not sure to what extent is OpenStreetMap  an open souce collective effort when an organization bangs on your door with an most likely automated message that implies that your contribution is not welcomed. This is perhaps why the open source movement has little momentum in China (Note that I am a Chinese, and I am not making up facts). 

## Wikipedia
My second contribution is for Wikipedia on a page for the Shanghai Zoo. The Chinese page is more informative than the English one, so I translated some content and addded to the English page. The contributing experiene went smoothly, as I felt that Wikipedia is trusting contributors to make appropriate changes. Also no group or organization sent me an automated message telling me that my contribution is unwelcomed.