---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Red Hat and OpenSource
permalink: /blogs/week13
---

This week not much is going on. I am going to briefly talk about Red Hat and our open source contribution progress
<!--more-->

## Red Hat's Success

In my opinion, Red Hat is successful as it mitigated the drawback of open source software: lack of support and responsibility. If a open source project breaks down, there is usually not a specific entity to blame. This is problematic as comapnies cannot find anyone and blame them. Red Hat offers 24/7 support for their open source products. Because Red Hat’s revenue depends on their reputation, they have a real incentive to push back on bad ideas upstream, fix security holes fast, and maintain transparent roadmaps. That level of accountability spills over into the community, raising the bar for every open source project they touch. Red Hat cracked the code on how to make “free” software into a sustainable, billion‑dollar business. They took the openness and innovation of the community with combinations of layers of enterprise-grade testing, support, and ecosystem integrations. I think that’s why companies keep lining up to give away less money on software licenses and invest more in predictable subscriptions they can actually rely on.

## Open Source Contribution

I regularly create one pull request per week for The Odin Project. I think we picked the right project as it is not hard to make contributions at all. I don't have to open issues before creating pull requests, and the maintainers merge pull requests very quickly. On the other hand, I attempted claimed multiple issues with no maintainers response. I am pretty sure that I followed the contributing guide... the maintainers are just slow to respond to issues. If they assign me after the class ends, I might lose my motivation to work on pull requests. With that in mind, I stopped claiming issues very early. There are not much issue to claim anyways. If there are any, they are almost immediately taken by my groupmate Chuqiao. Nevertheless, I think my open source contribution is going well. Perhaps I will try to work on a more sophisticated open source project over the summer.
