---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - The Cathedral, the Bazaar, and the Coffeehouse
permalink: /blogs/week12
---

We took a look at the concept of the Cathedral, the Bazaar, and the Coffeehouse this weeks
<!--more-->

## OSPO
OSPO stands for Open Source Program Office. It handles the open source component of a companies project. Given the reliance of developers on open source project and already made wheels, it makes sense to introduce OSPO and recoginize the importance of the open source sector. 

Open source projects usually depends on its community or several important individual contributors, and there is now guarentee on how active they will be, especially in response to fixing bugs and vulnuerabilites. As shown in the presentation, there is usually a long chain of open source dependencies. If one of the open source projects goes bad, the whole chain is compromised. Therefore, ensuring the integrity of the open-source projects is a non-trivial task.

Companies therefore invest in OSPO to handle the open source sector. OSPO evaluates open source projects based on their openness to contribution and community. When needed, OSPO can engage in development or fund the open-source community to solve issues.

## Coffeehouse
Coffeehouse is the concept where multiple OSPO comes together, share data, and evaluate metrics. Based on the fact that Coffeehouse evaluates open source projects, there should not be a conflict of interest. A interesting fact is that there are more open source projects than active contributors. It would be impossible for a single OSPO to evaluate thousands of open source projects - takes too much time and money. More importantly, OSPOs can alert each others of potential risks and failures.

If a mission critical project have a similar community compared to the Odin Project, our contribution project, then companies should be very worried. In essenece, the Odin Project community is very loosely organized. Maintainers review pull requests but often hesitate to comment on issues. Based on the nature of the project (tutorials), there are many beginner contributors.

Perhaps OSPOs will never even bother to evaluate our project. Even if they do, they will toss them out of the window.