---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Preliminary Project Evaluation
permalink: /blogs/week5
---

In this week, we began to look at some existing opensource projects and evaluate their potential for contributions. As a group, we looked into the pygame library for Python.
<!--more-->

## Evaluation of Pygame
Pygame initally seems to be an ideal candidate for contributions. Python is an immensly popular programming language for beginners, and pygame is often used as an introductory material for learning Python and programming in general. At least I used something similar to pygame when I was learning Python.

It is therefore not surprising to see that pygame has a standalone wiki, which is very welcoming to learners and new contributors. However, the latest commit for pygame is on Sep 29, 2024, nearly 5 months from today. There is one major contributor who has been merging pull requests and pushing commits. Within the last year, other contributors only forwarded a limited number of small commits. In the past, there were other contributors, but they stopped being active several years ago.

Moreover, there are many low quality issues in the repository. I can imagine that a begineer friendly repo can be target to "peripheral users" who scratched the surface of open source development and did not know what they were doing. It is harder to find serious issue with helpful discussions as the closed issues are filled with garbage issues.

Therefore, I began to think that contributing to pygame might not be a smart move. Pygame is a project that seems to have reached the end of its life-cycle. It is being developed for nearly more than 10 years, and it is not receiving much attention lately. Pygame probably has all the features it need. Most importantly, the overall quality of issues are heavily degraded, and the major contributors do not seem to be active anymore.

## Thoughts on open source contribution
Finding the right project might be the hardest part in the entire process, in my opinion. A good project needs to be active, welcoming, and the codebase cannot be too tough. It feels like we are looking hard for a long hanging fruit, contributing simply for the sake of it. This can be against the free and open spirit of open source software, but we are in class so it has to be done.

Personally, I am most excited in writing code getting my pull request merged. I do not exactly want to get too involved in the community since I know I probably won't be active after the class ends. I hope the process of claiming issues, fixing them, and creating pull requests is streamlined enough so that I do not have to bother many people to finish my classwork. Moreover, I personally believe that an active community is not absolutely required. Most contributors are not on a paycheck, and they have other priorities. I prefer to have things done in an asychronous manner, and it kind of makes sense. However, such approach would require standards and procedures.
