---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Firefox Addon Exercise
permalink: /blogs/week3
---

In this week, students are tasked with creating an open source browser extension. Evidently, Google Chrome seems to have surpassed Firefox in popularity. Only around 3 people in class are regularly using Firefox now. The dominance of Chromium based browser is a trend that a have observed, which only makes the existence of independent browsers such as Firefox more valuable.
<!--more-->

## Endless Scrolling Firefox Extension
In an assigned team of 3, we decided to develop a funny plugin that duplicates a website's content once the user has scrolled to the bottom, essentially allowing infinite scrolling. This idea originated from one Justin, who also came up with three other ideas. He seems to be a natural leader and was very proactive in documenting and organizing meetings. We choose this extension idea for its simplicity and straightforwardness. I personally favored it as I knew I could implement it very quickly.

## Developing
I claimed to be proficient in JavaScript, and I leaded the development process. I first studied the code of the provided examples and learned the difference between background scripts and content scripts. Background scripts is like code running in an independent environment inside the browser and does not belong to any specific tab. For example, using `alert()` and `console.log()` in a background script does not have any noticable effect. This bothered me initially as I thought my background script was not running. The content script is injected into the webpage, which lives in a specific tab. As a result, `alert()` and `console.log()` works as expected. The model is simple: background script reads and send user input, and content scripts receive user input and execute the intended effect.

Duplicating a website's content is straightforward once I get my head around it. I simply copy all the DOM elements between the `<body>` tags and append them to the end of the `<body>` tags. Indeed, the length of the webpage will duplicate exponentially across mulitple duplicates. Detecting the webpage's height was a headache as `document.body.offsetHeight` is inconsistent in reading some website's height. Specifically, `document.body.offsetHeight` sometimes does not change even if the content is duplicated. The solution is to use `document.body.scrollheight` instead. The issue seems to be different handling of overflow height. To prevent multiple content duplications in a single scroll, I added a 0.5 second internal cooldown.

Collaboration was made intuitive by the use of git. After I pushed an initial version of the code, one of my teammates opened an issue detailing the bugs he encountered. I quickly pushed again to fix the issue, and he closed the issue once he saw that the fix worked.

## Open source
We chose the MIT open source license and used the Contributor Convenant's code of conduct. Another teammate is making a style guide with respect to the code I have written, which I hope is clean.
