---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Git Exercise and Extensions Presentation
permalink: /blogs/week4
---

In this week, we practiced using Git in class and presented our browser plugins. 
<!--more-->

## Git
I would say that I have quite a bit of experience using git, in and out of class. Nevertheless, it does not hurt to learn again. Git is almost the industry standard for version control systems, and it is almost impossible to not learn or know Git before this class. One cannot deny Git's capacities and performance, but it may appear complicated for beginners and non-programmers. The existence of GitHub Desktop mostly circumvents the need to use command lines. I do not know that happened, but my command line Git keeps trying to use my other Git account even if the username and email fields are configured properly. Therefore, I rely on GitHub Desktop to push commits to remote. I guess that is one of the drawbacks of command line tools. God knows what settings I messed up.

## Plugin Presentations.
The plugin presentations are more interesting than I imagined. I never enjoyed presenting or watching presentations, but today was surprisingly pleasant for me. There are many funny ideas, such as the "I did that" Trump meme for whitehouse.gov. The most sophisticated extension had to be the markup/latex parser. Although it did rely on external libraries, invoking and integrating them must have been painful. The cutiest extension is the random cat meme, which evidently forwards cat memes from a dedicated API. I learned the existence of No code of conduct code of conduct. It sounded like a meme, and its terms are quite "straightforward" to say the least. It attempts to combat the mainstream culture of "inclusiveness" and tries to bring coding back to its wild incipient ages. I can see why people get annoyed when they have to "babysit" members of the community who exploits inclusivity for attention and profit.

I guess my biggest takeaway is that it is not required to adopt a standard code of conduct. After all, everything that happens to the code and the repo is under our control. Not including a code of conduct can also be a deliberate choice. While I don't believe this is something that the instructor wanted me to learn, I learned it anyway.