---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Project Progress and Presentation
permalink: /blogs/week11
---

We continued to work on contributions to The Odin Project (TOP) and welcomed a presenter on Wednesday
<!--more-->

## Project Progress
I am currently optimistic about our project of contributing to TOP curriculum. Contrary to our worries, the TOP community and maintainers are very active in reviewing and accepting pull requests. I recently created a pull request that fixed some minor typos, and it was merged in less than one day. A pattern I am observing is that pull requests are reviewed quickly while the issues are much less active. I attempted to claim various issues, but I have not received any response yet. My teammates seem to have better luck as they are assigned to issues they claimed by the maintainers.

It is true that our contributions are not complex or substantial. We did not commit to implement new features or rewrite lessons. Perhaps other groups have much more exciting endeavours. Nevertheless, none of us plan to continue our contributions after the class ends. It therefore makes sense that we limit our involvment in the project. We don't want to abandon issues and leave a mess.

We hope to submit more pull requests in the following weeks. We already have one merged pull request, so we are confident that our approach complies with the project standards.

## Presentation by Shivam Balikondwar
I really like Shivam and his presentation. Because we are all students, I found it easier to relate to him and his circumstances. He is really a self-made student in computer science, and his knowledge and accomplishments outclass most computer science majors in the classroom, including me. I have great repsect for his persistence and motivation.

As a graduating senior, I clearly lack motivation. It is lucky to become motivated for reasons other than money. While Shivam mentioned multiple times that he turned to computer science because it pays well, I believe it is not the only motivation (unless he wants money very, very badly). Personally, I am not ambitious at all. Finishing college courses at a high level is hard-work enough for me. Having fancy open source contributions on my resume probably does help me land a job, but I guess I am not too desparate at the end of the day.

I want to comment that Shivam must really know and love NYU. With his experienece and expertise, I think he can land in much more prestigious schools. Perhaps professional don't care about prestige that much since they are really here for the knowledge.
I want to comment that Shivam must really know and love NYU. With his experienece and expertise, I think he can land in much more prestigious schools. Perhaps professional don't care about prestige that much since they are really here for the knowledge.