---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Presentations
permalink: /blogs/week8
---

This week, we had a presenter from OSI in class to talk about Open Souce in general and Open Source Artificial intelligence especially.
<!--more-->

## Open Source
One important concept from the talk is that a project cannot be 50% open source - it is either completely open source or not open source. Conceptually, I would disagree because to me it is possible for a portion of the software to be more open than the others. Modern software is complex and contains many different parts. Legally and practically, the all or nothing definition of open-source makes sense because open source projects enjoy legal recoginition in many different countries. In this case, making the open source concept black and white has its benefits. One of my classmates also asked if the OSI made compromises to allow easier adherence to open source standards. The presenter clearly thinks that the OSI definitions are justified and rejects any bargaining. I guess that many companies (we mentioned Meta) want to sway the definition of open source in their favor, and it is up to the OSI, a rather neutral orgainization, to uphold standards and protect the open source spirit from corporate manipulation. At least this is what the situation sounded like - I am not sure if this is the fact. Nevertheless, it does seem plausible that tech giants are not doing anything friendly here.

## Open Source AI
AI has been huge and so is open source. When the two terms join, they resonate and become the ultimate buzz word. I am surprised to hear that DeepSeek is actually not entirely open source. From my understanding, some of it is open source on GitHub while others are not. I guess this is why defining open source AI is a challenge for people. AI requires training on sensitive data, which is probably not ok to be open sourced. Even the most ardent open source advocate cannot recommend releasing every single piece of data. OpenAI was once open source but turned closed source, which is not surprising when they dominated the market about two years ago. For sure they would not share their code - they would not want competitors to catch up. With hindsight, we know that OpenAI cannot keep the lead forever. Some of its competitors are even considering making their model open source, making their product more competitive.
