---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Project Takeoff
permalink: /blogs/week7
---

This blog is about our final project: open source contribution to the Odin Project
<!--more-->

## The Odin Project
The Odin Project sure has a fancy name, but it is basically a front-end tutorial website. One of my group members found out about this project. It has two main GitHub repositories, the [website](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/theodinproject) and the [curriculum](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum). The website is basically the code, and the curriculum is the content markdown files. We chose TOP for its ease of contribution and number of open issues. The curriculum is obviously an easy choice because everyone can edit markdown files; on the other hand, the website is written in Ruby, which no one knows. The plan is to start contributing to the curriculum and work our way to the website.

The best part of the choice is its feasibility. At least for me, it is highly likely that our contributions will be accepted for the curriculum repository. The trade-off that our contributions won't be super exciting, and they probably won't fit in a resume. Examining my initial objection for choosing to contribute to TOP, I believe those are the main reasons. Nevertheless, I changed my mind as soon as I realized that people are simply trying to pass this course. It is not very ideal really, especially when I chose this class dreaming that I will have a nice addition on my resume. I guess that's that.

## Initial progress
Contributing to TOP is pretty straightforward, issues need to be claimed for us to work on them. I found out [an issue](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues/29444) in the curriculum repo that reports several problems. I tested myself to confirm that the problems exist and proposed to work on them. I am not sure when someone will reply to my comments, and I cannot do anything before that.

Looking forward, I think we should continue to find out issues that are relatively easy to tackle and attempt to claim them. If the maintainers does respond, then we can have some easy pull requests on the horizon. I do plan to abandon this project once this semester ends. I am not especially keen on contributing to something that is non-code.
